Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to be looking at returning a value so a function doesn't always have
to display its output directly.
Instead it can process some data and return a value or a set of values the value to a function returns
is called the return value.
The return statement takes a value from inside a function and sends it back to the line to call the
function.
So let's take a look in the example and let's start off with something simple.
Let's format a name.
So as always I've opened up with some comments and let's define our function so formatted name.
That's our function name.
So what do we have we have our first name and we have our last name.
OK and there we go.
Then we describe our function with our three quotes.
Return
return a formatted name close with quotes.
OK so what this is going to be it's gonna become a fun name.
So full name equals.
And what's it gonna be.
It's going made up our first name plus a space Don't forget you have to add into space and our last
name.
OK and when we wanted to return full name we want to make sure that everything is properly uppercase.
Let's work on calling this now.
So let's say a teacher which is myself I suppose equals formatted name I want to format that and let's
give it two values Tony and start.
Obviously this can be your name.
Print teacher.
There we go.
Let's call that now and see what we get.
Error.
Why.
Well that is because I misspelt return which is appalling.
Apologies for that.
So let's run it again.
And there we go.
A nice clean formatted output of a name.
So what you can imagine this is a application so an online form or signing a web app or whatever it
might be and the user when the entry into name.
We don't know if you're going to Andrine Tony uppercase lowercase Staunton or briquets lowercase.
What this does is it ensures that the output is the same formatted way each time.
Let's look at another example and let's look at a user name.
So let's have a look here.
So again we start off defining our function.
Get formatted
username OK and as username is going to be somebody's email address or entity or SS email address.
OK.
And as always with our quotes return a formatted username.
Here we go closer quote.
So a user name equals email address dot strip and if you remember district when you use a string strips
out all the whitespace or somebody puts in whitespace before or after your email address.
Obviously that's not going to work.
This will strip out any error like that.
So return username than user equals get formatted username and let's give it Tony an example.
Dotcom.
And don't forget you need to enclose this in quotes.
Let me just do that now.
Quote And let's just add in some whitespace here.
So let's just add and there we go.
Print user.
OK now if it doesn't work we should have a big chunk of whitespace to the right of our email address
that runs.
There we go.
No whitespace here.
Very very nice.
So that's how again you can clean up user input related to an email address or a username.
So I hope that makes sense.
Thanks for listening and as always if you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me and
I'll see you in the next lecture.